Map Files for edit (#91)
mulesoft/docs-partner-manager: modules/ROOT/pages/create-map-json-xml-to-outbound-x12 copy.adoc

> = Create a Map For XML or JSON to Outbound EDI X12

Reviewer: ```suggestion
= Create a Map for XML or JSON to Outbound EDI X12
```
Hmm...I wonder if we can or should replace "Create a Map for..." to just "Map"? 
Map XML or JSON to Outbound EDI X12?
If so, apply to similar topic titles in set.

> Follow these steps to create the DataWeave map to transform your application message formats such as XML or JSON to outbound EDI X12 transactions:

Reviewer: GLOBAL ditto prev. comments about task intro text. I'll stop nagging.  ;-)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow these steps to create a DataWeave map to transform your application message formats such as XML or JSON to outbound EDI X12 transactions:
```

. Launch Anypoint Studio.
. From the Anypoint Studio *File* menu, select *New > Project from Template*.

> . Log in to Anypoint Exchange with your Anypoint platform credentials.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Log in to Anypoint Exchange with your Anypoint Platform credentials.
```

. Search for `X12`.

> . Click the template named `Template to map application messages to outbound EDI X12 transactions`.

Reviewer: Another idea about this step (repeated in this topic set):
```suggestion
. Click `Template to map application messages to outbound EDI X12 transactions`.
```

> . Click *Open*, to create a new project in your Studio workspace pre-loaded with the template. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Click *Open* to create a new project in your Studio workspace that is preloaded with the template. 
```

== Set the Source Message Type

To set the source JSON or XML message type for the map:

> . Copy the schema file of your target application message type into the `src/main/resources` folder in the template project.

Reviewer: ditto prev. question about this sentence earlier in the topic set

> . From the *Mule Palette* view, click the *Transform Message* component and drag it on to the Studio canvas.

Reviewer: Opt
```suggestion
. From the *Mule Palette* view, click *Transform Message* and drag it on to the Studio canvas.
```

> . Select the *Transform Message* component and in the input section, next to *Payload*, click *Define metadata*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Select the *Transform Message* component and in the input section, next to *Payload*, click *Define metadata*:
```

+
image::xml-to-outbound-x12-payload-add-metadata.png[Transform Message component add payload metadata]
+
. Click *Add*.

> . In *Type id*, enter a new message type ID, for example: `enterprise-outbound-purchase-order`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In *Type id*, enter a new message type ID, for example, `enterprise-outbound-purchase-order`.
```

. Click *Create type*.
. In the *Select metadata type* dialog window, from the *Type* drop-down menu, select *JSON* or *XML*. 

> . Browse to the location of the JSON or XML schema file you imported earlier and click *Select*.

Reviewer: ditto prev comments about same steps earlier

> == Set the Target X12 Message Type

Reviewer: Ditto all previous comments to this same text earlier in the PR.

The template has the X12 configuration for the below X12 transaction set:

* Version +
`4010`
* Transaction Set + 
`850 (Purchase order)`

Follow these steps to set the target X12 message type:

. Click the *Global Elements* tab at the base of the Studio canvas in `global-configs.xml`.
. From *Global Configuration Elements*, select *X12 EDO Config* and click *Edit*.
. In *Name*, change the name of the configuration.
. In the *Schema definitions*, select *Edit inline*. 

> . Select the value */x12/004010/850.esl* and click the edit icon.

Reviewer: New edit
```suggestion
. Select the value */x12/004010/850.esl* and click the edit icon:
```
Yay for the images!

+
image::xml-to-outbound-x12-edit-schema.png[X12 EDI Config dialog]
+
. Change the Schema value to the version and transaction set you want to map from, for example, set the value to `/x12/004010/204.esl`, if you want to map to a 4010-204 Load tender transaction. +
You now see your application message structure (JSON or XML) on the input pane in the left, and the X12 transaction set structure on the output pane in the right.
. Click *Finish*, then click *OK*. +
You can now begin mapping from input to the output.

> You can download a sample project from Exchange that has prebuilt mapping to transform outbound purchase order messages from XML to 4010 850 transactions.

Reviewer: Why?
Also, reread that sentence to be sure it is structured to clearly indicate your meaning. It sounds pretty complicated to me....

== Test the Map Locally

Follow these steps to test the map locally in Anypoint Studio: 

. Right-click on the project, and click *Run > Run as Mule application*.
. Use a REST client to POST a JSON or an XML payload to the URL `+http://localhost:8081/x12/out+`. +
The application returns the translated EDI X12 transaction.
. Copy the DataWeave map from `src/main/resources/x12/OUT-application-message-to-X12-version-transaction-partner.dwl` and rename it to something meaninfgul, for example: +
`OUT-SAP-purchaseorder-XML-to-X12-4010-850-MythicalSupplier.dwl`

> Later, when you create and configure an outbound message flow, you can import the `dwl` file in to the *Map* section of outbound message flow.

Reviewer: ditto prev edits
